and so it was when king hezekiah heard
it that he tore his clothes covered
himself with sackcloth
and went into the house of the Lord then
he sent a like him who was over the
household shebna the scribe and the
elders of the priests covered with
sackcloth to Isaiah the prophet the son
of Amos and they said to him thus says
Hezekiah this day is a day of trouble
and rebuke and blasphemy for the
children have come to birth but there is
no strength to bring them forth it may
be that the Lord your God will hear the
words of the rap Chaka whom his master
the king of Assyria has sent to reproach
the Living God and will rebuke the words
which the Lord your God has heard
therefore lift up your prayer for the
remnant that is left so the servants of
King Hezekiah came to Isaiah and Isaiah
said to them thus you shall say to your
master thus says the Lord do not be
afraid of the words which you have heard
with which the servants of the king of
Assyria have blaspheme to me surely I
will send a spirit upon him and he shall
hear a rumour and return to his own land
and I will cause him to fall by the
sword in his own land
then the Rabb Shakur returned and found
the king of Assyria warring against
Lebanon for he heard that he had
departed from lakish
and the King heard concerning to heika
king of Ethiopia
he has come out to make war with you so
when he heard it he sent messengers to
Hezekiah saying thus you shall speak to
Hezekiah king of Judah saying do not let
your God in whom you trust deceive you
saying Jerusalem shall not be given into
the hand of the king of Assyria look you
have heard what the kings of Assyria had
done to all lands by utterly destroying
them and shall you be delivered have the
gods of the nations delivered those who
my fathers have destroyed Goshen and
Haran and Loras F and the people of Eden
who were into lesser where is the king
of famous the king of our part and the
king of the city of sefar am pinna and
Eva and Hezekiah received the letter
from the hand of the messengers and read
it
Hezekiah went up to the house of the
Lord and spread it before the Lord then
Hezekiah prayed to the Lord O Lord of
Hosts God of Israel the one who dwells
between the cherubim you are God you
alone of all the kingdoms of the earth
you have made heaven and earth
incline your ear o Lord and hear open
your eyes o Lord and see and hear all
the words of Sennacherib which he has
sent to reproach the Living God truly
Lord the kings of Assyria have laid
waste all the nations and their lands
and have cast their gods into the fire
but they were not gods but the work of
men's hands wood and stone
therefore they destroyed them now
therefore O Lord our God save us from
his hand that all the kingdoms of the
earth may know that you are the Lord you
alone when Isaiah the son of Amoz sent
Hezekiah saying thus says the Lord God
of Israel because you have prayed to me
against Sennacherib king of Assyria this
is the word which the Lord has spoken
concerning him the virgin
the daughter of Zion has despised you
laughed you to scorn the daughter of
Jerusalem has shaken her head behind
your back
who have you reproached and blaspheme
against whom have you raised your voice
and lifted up your eyes on high against
the Holy One of Israel by your servants
you have reproached the Lord and said by
the multitude of my chariots I have come
up to the height of the mountains to the
limits of Lebanon I will cut down its
tall Cedars and its choice cypress trees
I will enter its farthest height to its
fruitful forest I have dug and drunk
and with the soles of my feet I have
dried up all the Brooks of Defense did
you not hear long ago how I made it from
ancient times that I formed it now I
have brought it to pass that you should
be for crushing fortified cities into
heaps of ruins there for their
inhabitants had little power they were
dismayed and confounded they were as the
grass of the field and the green herb as
the grass on the housetops and grain
blighted before it is grown but I know
your dwelling place your going out and
your coming in and your rage against me
because your rage against me and your
tumult have come up to my ears therefore
I will put my hook in your nose and my
bridle in your lips and I will turn you
back by the way which you came this
shall be assigned to you you shall eat
this year such as grows of itself and
the second year what Springs from the
same also in the third year sow and reap
plant vineyards and eats the fruit of
them and the remnant who have escaped of
the house of Judah shall again take root
downward and bear fruit
would four out of Jerusalem shall go a
remnant and those who escaped from Mount
Zion the zeal of the Lord of Hosts will
do this therefore thus says the Lord
concerning the king of Assyria he shall
not come into this city nor shoot an
arrow there nor come before it with
shield nor build a siege mount against
it by the way that he came by the same
shall he returned and he shall not come
into this city for I will defend this
city to save it for my own sake and for
my servant David sake
[Music]
then the angel of the Lord went out and
killed in the camp of the Assyrians
185,000
[Music]
and when the people arose early in the
morning there were the corpses all dead
so Sennacherib king of Assyria departed
and went away returned home and remained
at Nineveh now it came to pass as he was
worshiping in the house of nice rock his
God but his sons a drama lake and
cheresa struck him down with the sword
they escaped into the land of Ararat
then Issa hadn't his son reigned in his
place